Published as a Tiny Paper at ICLR 2024
OBSERVATIONS ON BUILDING RAG SYSTEMS FOR
TECHNICAL DOCUMENTS
Sumit Soman and Sujoy Roychowdhury∗
{sumit.soman, sujoy.roychowdhury}@ericsson.com
ABSTRACT
Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) for technical documents creates chal-
lenges as embeddings do not often capture domain information. We review prior
art for important factors affecting RAG and perform experiments to highlight best
practices and potential challenges to build RAG systems for technical documents.
1
INTRODUCTION
Long form Question Answering (QA) involves generating paragraph-size responses from Large Lan-
guage Models (LLMs). RAG for technical documents has several challenges Xu et al. (2023); Toro
et al. (2023). Factors affecting retrieval performance, including in-context documents, LLMs and
metrics, have been evaluated Chen et al. (2023a). To further build on this work, we conduct exper-
iments on technical documents with telecom and battery terminology to examine the influence of
chunk length, keyword-based search and ranks (sequence) of retrieved results in the RAG pipeline.
2
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Our experiments are based on IEEE Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical
Layer (PHY) specifications IEEE (2021) and IEEE Standard Glossary of Stationary Battery Ter-
minology 1881-2016 (2016). We separately process the glossary of definitions and the full docu-
ment, as many expected questions are based on the definitions.We source questions based on domain
knowledge and report experimental results on 42 representative queries across the documents. Mul-
tiple embedding models can be used, Reimers & Gurevych (2019), we use MPNET Song et al.
(2020) for the entire document - excluding tables and captions. For the glossary, we split the term
and the definition and generate separate embeddings for them, as well as for the full paragraph hav-
ing the defined term and the definition. Soman & HG (2023) have reviewed other LLMs for telecom
domain, but we chose llama2-7b-chat model Touvron et al. (2023) as it is free and has a commercial-
friendly license. We evaluate on multiple questions and report on selected questions to substantiate
our observations. For reference, the prompts used for the LLM are provided in Appendix A.
3
OBSERVATIONS
We first observe that sentence embeddings become unreliable with increasing chunk size. Appendix
B Fig. 1 shows the Kernel Density Estimate (KDE) plot of cosine similarity scores for various
sentence lengths. We take 10,970 sentences and look at pairwise similarity for all the sentences. A
high similarity is observed when the length of the sentences is relatively long. The higher similarity
distribution for larger lengths indicates spurious similarities which we manually validate for a few
samples. We find that when both the query and queried document are over 200 words, the similarity
distribution is bimodal. When either of them are over 200 words, there is a small but less perceptible
lift at higher similarities.
Table 1 summarizes our hypotheses and key observations - corresponding sample queries and their
results are provided in Appendix C. We hypothesize that splitting on definition and terms can help
improve results (H1), similarity scores being a good measure (H2), position of keywords influenc-
ing results (H3), sentence-based similarity resulting in a better retriever (H4) and generator (H5),
∗Global AI Accelerator, Ericsson R&D, Bangalore, India. Both authors contributed equally. Git Repo Link.
1
arXiv:2404.00657v1  [cs.LG]  31 Mar 2024
Published as a Tiny Paper at ICLR 2024
Hyp
Hypothesis
Observation
Support (Samples)
H1
Splitting definition and de-
fined words help in queries
For definitions, using the defined word
and definition separately for retrieval
gives better performance
22
of
30
queries
(ID
2, 3)
H2
Similarity
scores
should
not be used to compare re-
trieved results
We observe that similarity scores be-
tween different approaches are not com-
parable and absolute values are often
very small for correct answers
24
of
30
queries
(ID
2, 3)
H3
Position of keywords matter Keywords closer to the beginning of the
sentence are retrieved with high accu-
racy
25 of 30 queries
Keywords which occur later in the sen-
tence are difficult to be retrieved
(ID 1, 4, 5,
6)
H4
Sentence Based Similarity
is better
Similarity based on sentence and distinct
paragraphs retrieved gives much detailed
context to generator
ID F1 - Ta-
ble 2 (8 of
10 queries)
H5
Generator
for
sentence
based similarity
Generated answer using sentence based
similarity and paragraph based retrieval
gives better results
8
of
10
queries
(App. Table
3 - ID F1)
H6
Definitions with acronyms
or words having acronyms
don’t perform well
Generated answers often expand or pro-
vide abbreviations which is not helpful
15
of
16
queries
(App. Table
3 - ID F2,
F3)
H7
Order of retrieved para-
graphs in generator results
Order of retrieved paragraphs do not af-
fect generator results in our experiments
NA
Table 1: Summary of observations - details of individual queries in Appendix B
answers for definitions based on acronyms (H6) and effect of order of retrieved results on generator
performance (H7). Of these, H2 is a result of our experiments with distributions of similarity scores
referred earlier and H7 is based on Chen et al. (2023a). Others are derived from our experiments to
improve results. For each hypotheses, we provide the number of experiments that support the claim
and those that are valid for the same in the last column, along with sample queries.
We find that retrieval by thresholding on similarity scores is not helpful. For queries 1, 2 and
5, when the query phrase is present in the term or definition, top retrieved score is higher. For
query 3, the correct result is retrieved at the second position using definition embedding, but in
other cases, result is not retrieved and similarity scores are close. For queries 4 and 6, we are
unable to retrieve the correct result, though scores indicate otherwise. Thus, thresholding retriever
results based on similarity scores can potentially result in sub-optimal generator augmentation. We
evaluate generator performance on our queries based on the retrieved results. This is done using the
top k retrieved (a) definitions, and (b) terms and definitions. Better context gives better generated
responses. For acronyms and their expansions, the generator does not add any additional value.
For retrieval on the full document, we explore similarity search by sentence and paragraph sepa-
rately. In the former, we retrieve the paragraph to which the sentence belongs and take top-k distinct
paragraphs from top similar sentences. We observe that the results by sentence-based similarity
search and paragraphs being used for generator provides better retriever and generator performance.
Authors in Chen et al. (2023a) mention order of presented information to be important, but we did
not observe different results on permuting the retrieved paragraphs. We observe generator responses
to sometimes fail due to incorrect retrieval, hallucinated facts or incorrect synthesis as highlighted
in Chen et al. (2023a). We recommend such approaches for definition QA and long form QA.
4
CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
We show that chunk length affects retriever embeddings, and generator augmentation by threshold-
ing retriever results on similarity scores can be unreliable. However, use of abbreviations and a large
number of related paragraphs for a topic make our observations particularly relevant for long form
QA on technical documents. As future work, we would like to use RAG metrics Es et al. (2023);
Chen et al. (2023b) to choose retrieval strategies. Also, methods and evaluation metrics to answer
follow-up questions would be of interest.
2
Published as a Tiny Paper at ICLR 2024
URM STATEMENT
The authors acknowledge that at least one key author of this work meets the URM criteria of ICLR
2024 Tiny Papers Track.
REFERENCES
IEEE 1881-2016. IEEE standard glossary of stationary battery terminology. IEEE Std 1881-2016,
pp. 1–42, 2016. doi: 10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7552407.
Hung-Ting Chen, Fangyuan Xu, Shane A Arora, and Eunsol Choi. Understanding retrieval augmen-
tation for long-form question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.12150, 2023a.
Jiawei Chen, Hongyu Lin, Xianpei Han, and Le Sun. Benchmarking large language models in
retrieval-augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.01431, 2023b.
Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, and Steven Schockaert. Ragas: Automated evaluation
of retrieval augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.15217, 2023.
IEEE. IEEE standard for information technology–telecommunications and information exchange
between systems - local and Metropolitan Area Networks–specific requirements - part 11: Wire-
less LAN medium access control (MAC) and physical layer (PHY) specifications. IEEE Std
802.11-2020 (Revision of IEEE Std 802.11-2016), pp. 1–4379, 2021. doi: 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2021.9363693.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych.
Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-
networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-
IJCNLP). Association for Computational Linguistics, 2019.
Sumit Soman and Ranjani HG. Observations on LLMs for telecom domain: Capabilities and limi-
tations (To appear in the proceedings of The Third International Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence and Machine Learning Systems). arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13102, 2023.
Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Tao Qin, Jianfeng Lu, and Tie-Yan Liu. MPNET: Masked and permuted pre-
training for language understanding. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:
16857–16867, 2020.
Sabrina Toro, Anna V Anagnostopoulos, Sue Bello, Kai Blumberg, Rhiannon Cameron, Leigh Car-
mody, Alexander D Diehl, Damion Dooley, William Duncan, Petra Fey, et al. Dynamic retrieval
augmented generation of ontologies using artificial intelligence (DRAGON-AI). arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.10904, 2023.
Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Niko-
lay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. Llama 2: Open founda-
tion and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288, 2023.
Benfeng Xu, Chunxu Zhao, Wenbin Jiang, Pengfei Zhu, Songtai Dai, Chao Pang, Zhuo Sun, Shuo-
huan Wang, and Yu Sun. Retrieval-augmented domain adaptation of language models. In Pro-
ceedings of the 8th Workshop on Representation Learning for NLP (RepL4NLP 2023), pp. 54–64,
2023.
3
Published as a Tiny Paper at ICLR 2024
A
APPENDIX A
The prompts used for the LLM in our experiments are as follows:
• System Prompt: Answer the questions based on the paragraphs provided here. DO NOT
use any other information except that in the paragraphs. Keep the answers as short as
possible. JUST GIVE THE ANSWER. NO PREAMBLE REQUIRED.
• User Prompt: “PARAGRAPHS : ”+context + “QUESTIONS: ” + query
B
APPENDIX B
Figure 1: The distribution of similarities across 10974 documents of various sizes split by number
of words in the document
C
APPENDIX C - SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL
We provide an anonymized Git repository which contains
• Anonymized source code
• Experiment v/s hypothesis tabulation (for consolidated quantitative results)
• Details of the experiments across 42 queries and 7 hypothesis
In addition, we provide details with respect to hypotheses in Table 1 by providing sample queries
and the retrieved and generated results.
4
Table 1 – Retrieval from Glossary
ID
Query
Expected answer
Use full sentence
Use defined word
Use definition
Observations
1.
Explain EIRP
effective isotropic radiated power
(EIRP): The equivalent power of a
transmitted signal in terms of an
isotropic (omnidirectional) radiator.
The EIRP equals the product of the
transmitter power and the antenna
gain (reduced by any coupling losses
between the transmitter and
antenna).
Effective isotropic radiated power
(EIRP): The equivalent power of a
transmitted signal in terms of an
isotropic (omnidirectional) radiator. The
EIRP equals the product of the
transmitter power and the antenna gain
(reduced by any coupling losses
between the transmitter and antenna).
(0.614)
Effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP): The
equivalent power of a transmitted signal in
terms of an isotropic (omnidirectional)
radiator. The EIRP equals the product of the
transmitter power and the antenna gain
(reduced by any coupling losses between the
transmitter and antenna
(0.478)
Effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP): The
equivalent power of a transmitted signal in
terms of an isotropic (omnidirectional)
radiator. The EIRP equals the product of the
transmitter power and the antenna gain
(reduced by any coupling losses between the
transmitter and antenna (0.669)
The retriever obtains
the correct definition
by all 3. Also keyword
at beginning of
sentence is picked up
with high similarity in
full sentence mode.
Emergency alert system (EAS): A U.S.
national public warning system. (0.372)
Emergency alert system (EAS): A U.S. national
public warning system.
(0.337)
IEEE 802.1X authentication',
' Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
authentication transported by the IEEE 802.1X
protocol.
(0.360)
Received channel power indicator
(RCPI): An indication of the total
channel power (signal, noise, and
interference) of a received frame
measured on the channel and at the
antenna connector used to receive the
frame. (0.362)
Extended service area (ESA): The area within
which members of an extended service set
(ESS) can communicate. An ESA is larger than
or equal to a basic service area (BSA) and
might involve several basic service sets (BSSs)
in overlapping, disjointed, or both
configurations. (0.322)
Master session key (MSK): Keying material
that is derived between the Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP) peer and
exported by the EAP method to the
Authentication Server (AS)
(0.291)
2
Why do we
need a beam
steering matrix
beamforming steering matrix: A
matrix determined using knowledge
of the channel between a transmitter
and an intended receiver that maps
from space-time streams to transmit
antennas with the goal of improving
the signal power or signal-to-noise
ratio (SNR) at the intended receiver
beamformee: A station (STA) that
receives a physical layer (PHY) protocol
data unit (PPDU) that was transmitted
using a beamforming steering matrix.
(0.626)
beamforming: A spatial filtering mechanism
used at a transmitter to improve the received
signal power or signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at
an intended receiver. Syn  beam steering.
(0.745)
beamformer: A station (STA) that transmits a
physical layer (PHY) protocol data unit (PPDU)
using a beamforming steering matrix. (0.426)
the top-1 does not
return the correct
answer using the
defined word. The
definition does not
return it in top-3. The
full definition returns
it in 3rd position.
However top sim in
definition > correct
answer in defined
word. Similarly wrong
2 answers in the full
definition have higher
sim than correct
answer in full
sentence
beamforming: A spatial filtering
mechanism used at a transmitter to
improve the received signal power or
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at an
intended receiver. Syn  beam steering.
(0.458)
beamforming steering matrix: A matrix
determined using knowledge of the channel
between a transmitter and an intended
receiver that maps from space-time streams
to transmit antennas with the goal of
improving the signal power or signal-to-noise
ratio (SNR) at the intended receiver.
(0.443)
beamforming: A spatial filtering mechanism
used at a transmitter to improve the received
signal power or signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at
an intended receiver. Syn  beam steering.
(0.367)
beamforming steering matrix: A matrix
determined using knowledge of the
channel between a transmitter and an
intended receiver that maps from
space-time streams to transmit
antennas with the goal of improving the
signal power or signal-to-noise ratio
(SNR) at the intended receiver.
(0.398)
directed frame: See individually addressed.
(0.309)
unknown_definition_18:NOTE These uses
include calculation of transmit steering,
calculation of recommended modulation and
coding scheme (MCS), and calculation of
calibration parameters. (0.359)
3
Which
framework
supports higher
precision traffic
under a
condition of
limited
resources
multi-level precedence and
preemption (MLPP): A framework
used with admission control for the
treatment of traffic streams based on
precedence, which supports the
preemption of an active traffic
stream by a higher precedence traffic
stream when resources are limited.
Preemption is the act of forcibly
removing a traffic stream in progress
in order to free up resources for
another higher precedence traffic
stream.
traffic category (TC): A label for medium
access control (MAC) service data units
(MSDUs) that have a distinct user
priority (UP), as viewed by higher layer
entities, relative to other MSDUs
provided for delivery over the same link.
Traffic categories are meaningful only to
MAC entities that support quality of
service (QoS) within the MAC data
service. These MAC entities determine
the UP for MSDUs belonging to a
particular traffic category using the
priority value provided with those
MSDUs at the MAC service access point
(MAC SAP).  (0.456)
traffic classification (TCLAS): The specification
of one of several types of matching filter to
classify protocol data units (PDUs) or medium
access control (MAC) service data units
(MSDUs) as belonging to a particular traffic
stream (TS). Depending on the type of
classification, the filter is applied within the
MAC sublayer management entity (MLME),
above the MAC, or within the MAC itself.
(0.535)
admission control: An algorithm intended to
prevent the violation of parameterized service
commitments made by the network to
admitted flows by controlling the admittance
of a new flow into a resource constrained
network. (0.405)
Only the definition can
extract the correct
answer but similarity
for the correct answer
via definition is lesser
than even the 3rd
result from the other
methods
traffic specification (TSPEC): The quality-
of-service (QoS) characteristics of a data
flow to and from a QoS station (STA).
(0.437)
traffic specification (TSPEC): The quality-of-
service (QoS) characteristics of a data flow to
and from a QoS station (STA).
(0.489)
multi-level precedence and preemption
(MLPP): A framework used with admission
control for the treatment of traffic streams
based on precedence, which supports the
preemption of an active traffic stream by a
higher precedence traffic stream when
resources are limited. Preemption is the act of
forcibly removing a traffic stream in progress
in order to free up resources for another
higher precedence traffic stream.(0.398)
traffic stream (TS): A set of medium
access control (MAC) service data units
(MSDUs) to be delivered subject to the
quality-of-service (QoS) parameter
values provided to the MAC in a
particular traffic specification (TSPEC).
TSs are meaningful only to MAC entities
that support QoS within the MAC data
service. These MAC entities determine
the TSPEC applicable for delivery of
MSDUs belonging to a particular TS
using the priority parameter provided
with those MSDUs at the MAC service
access point (MAC SAP). (0.411)
traffic stream (TS): A set of medium access
control (MAC) service data units (MSDUs) to
be delivered subject to the quality-of-service
(QoS) parameter values provided to the MAC
in a particular traffic specification (TSPEC). TSs
are meaningful only to MAC entities that
support QoS within the MAC data service.
These MAC entities determine the TSPEC
applicable for delivery of MSDUs belonging to
a particular TS using the priority parameter
provided with those MSDUs at the MAC
service access point (MAC SAP). (0.461)
traffic specification (TSPEC): The quality-of-
service (QoS) characteristics of a data flow to
and from a QoS station (STA). (0.396)
4.
How is
Ethertype
protocol
discrimination
medium access control (MAC) service
tuple: The collection of a MAC
service data unit (MSDU) along with
the associated source address,
unknown_definition_2: NOTE See IETF
RFC 3610. (0.434)
peer-to-peer traffic specification (PTP TSPEC):
The quality-of-service (QoS) characteristics of
a data flow between non-access point (non-
AP) QoS stations (STAs). (0.413)
frame: A unit of data exchanged between
peer protocol entities. (0.418)
Unable to identify this
despite it being
available as a keyword
in the actual definition
(EPD)
identified?
destination addresses, priority, drop
eligibility, service class, optional set
of service_access_point_identifiers,
and optional indication of whether
the supplied MSDU is in Ethertype
protocol discrimination (EPD) or
logical link control (LLC) protocol
discrimination (LPD) format, which
are all passed as parameters across
the MAC service access point (SAP)
and are all except the
service_access_point_identifiers
delivered across the distribution
system between access points (APs),
mesh gates, and the portal of an
extended service set (ESS).
frame: A unit of data exchanged
between peer protocol entities. (0.432)
protocol instance: An execution of a particular
protocol that consists of the state of the
communicating parties as well as the
messages exchanged. (0.380)
unknown_definition_9: NOTE See IETF RFC
4282. (0.407)
unknown_definition_9: NOTE See IETF
RFC 4282. (0.404)
traffic classification (TCLAS): The specification
of one of several types of matching filter to
classify protocol data units (PDUs) or medium
access control (MAC) service data units
(MSDUs) as belonging to a particular traffic
stream (TS). Depending on the type of
classification, the filter is applied within the
MAC sublayer management entity (MLME),
above the MAC, or within the MAC itself.
(0.370)
traffic classification (TCLAS): The specification
of one of several types of matching filter to
classify protocol data units (PDUs) or medium
access control (MAC) service data units
(MSDUs) as belonging to a particular traffic
stream (TS). Depending on the type of
classification, the filter is applied within the
MAC sublayer management entity (MLME),
above the MAC, or within the MAC itself.
(0.383)
5
What does GAS
stand for?
registered location query protocol
(RLQP): The query protocol for
registered location information that
is received and transported by
generic advertisement service (GAS)
Public Action frames.
unknown_definition_1:NOTE See IETF
RFC 2903 [B35]. (0.384)
unknown_definition_8: NOTE IEEE Std 802.11
supports only downlink (DL) MU-MIMO. See
downlink multi-user multiple input, multiple
output (DL-MU-MIMO) (in 3.2). (0.343)
distribution system medium (DSM): The
medium or set of media used by a distribution
system (DS) for communications between
access points (APs), mesh gates, and the
portal of an extended service set (ESS).
(0.357)
Unable to identify this
despite it being
available as a keyword
in the actual definition
unknown_definition_2:NOTE See IETF
RFC 3610. (0.376)
unknown_definition_13: NOTE For the
purposes of this Standard, there is at most
one portal in a given extended service set s
(ESS s) infrastructure. In an implementation, a
single logical portal function may be provided
by multiple devices that provide integration
services for the ESS. How such multiple
devices coordinate to appear as a single
logical portal is implementation dependent.
(0.337)
service hash: A value used for representing a
service. This value is formed from a hash of
the service name.
(0.322)
unknown_definition_9:NOTE See IETF
RFC 4282. (0.370)
unknown_definition_18: NOTE These uses
include calculation of transmit steering,
calculation of recommended modulation and
coding scheme (MCS), and calculation of
calibration parameters.
(0.334)
subscription service provider (SSP): An
organization (operator) offering connection to
network services, perhaps for a fee.
(0.304)
6
What is derived
between EAP
peer
master session key (MSK): Keying
material that is derived between the
Extensible Authentication Protocol
(EAP) peer and exported by the EAP
method to the Authentication Server
(AS).
IEEE 802.1X authentication: Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP)
authentication transported by the IEEE
802.1X protocol. (0.491)
peer mesh station (STA): A mesh STA to which
a mesh peering has been established.
(0.460)
frame: A unit of data exchanged between
peer protocol entities.
(0.625)
The keyword is
relatively at the
beginning of the
sentence and is
therefore picked up
wherever available (it
is not available in the
defined word)
master session key (MSK): Keying
material that is derived between the
Extensible Authentication Protocol
(EAP) peer and exported by the EAP
method to the Authentication Server
(AS). (0.434)
peer-to-peer link: A direct link within a quality-
of-service (QoS) basic service set (BSS), a
tunneled direct- link setup (TDLS) link, or a
station-to-station (STA-to-STA) communication
in an independent basic service set (IBSS).
(0.401)
IEEE 802.1X authentication: Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP) authentication
transported by the IEEE 802.1X protocol.
(0.476)
peer-to-peer traffic specification (PTP
TSPEC): The quality-of-service (QoS)
characteristics of a data flow between
non-access point (non-AP) QoS stations
(STAs).
(0.410)
peer-to-peer traffic specification (PTP TSPEC):
The quality-of-service (QoS) characteristics of
a data flow between non-access point (non-
AP) QoS stations (STAs).
(0.373)
master session key (MSK): Keying material
that is derived between the Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP) peer and
exported by the EAP method to the
Authentication Server (AS).
(0.451)
Table 2 – Retrieval from full document
Query ID
Query
Expected answer
Search for paragraph
Search by sentence retrieve paragraph
Observations
F1
What do the values
of RAW Group
Indication subfield in
RPS element
indicate?
The RAW Group Indication subfield indicates
whether the RAW Group subfield is present in
the RAW
Assignment subfield and is interpreted as
follows:
— When the RAW type is generic RAW,
sounding RAW, or triggering frame RAW, the
RAW Group Indication subfield indicates
whether the RAW group defined in the current
RAW assignment is the
same RAW group as defined in the previous
RAW assignment. When the RAW Group
Indication subfield is equal to 0, the RAW group
defined in the current RAW assignment is the
same as the
RAW group defined in the previous RAW
assignment and the RAW Group subfield is not
present in this RAW assignment. When the
RAW Group Indication subfield is equal to 1, the
RAW Group subfield is present in this RAW
assignment. The RAW Group Indication subfield
in the first RAW assignment is set to 0 to
indicate the RAW group in the first RAW
assignment is the same as the range of AIDs in
all the TIM bitmaps in the S1G Beacon frame.
— When the RAW is a non-TIM RAW, the RAW
Group Indication subfield is set to 0 and the
RAW
Group subfield is not present.
— When the RAW is an AP PM RAW, the RAW
Group Indication subfield equal to 0 indicates
that the
RAW group does not include any of the non-AP
STAs, and the RAW Group subfield is not
present.
When the RAW Group Indication subfield is
equal to 1, the RAW Group subfield is present.
The format of the RAW Group subfield is shown in
Figure 9-672
When the RAW is an AP PM RAW, the RAW Group
Indication subfield equal to 0 indicates that the RAW group
does not include any of the non-AP STAs, and the RAW
Group subfield is not present. When the RAW Group
Indication subfield is equal to 1, the RAW Group subfield is
present.
It is clear that similarity
search at sentence level and
retrieval at paragraph level
gives significantly better
results. Since we retrieve 3
distinct paragraphs there is
far more context available at
the generator create good
responses
When the RAW is an AP PM RAW, the RAW Group
Indication subfield equal to 0 indicates that the
RAW group does not include any of the non-AP
STAs, and the RAW Group subfield is not present.
When the RAW Group Indication subfield is equal
to 1, the RAW Group subfield is present.
The RAW Group Indication subfield indicates whether the
RAW Group subfield is present in the RAW Assignment
subfield and is interpreted as follows:
The RAW Group Indication subfield indicates
whether the RAW Group subfield is present in the
RAW Assignment subfield and is interpreted as
follows:
When the RAW type is generic RAW, sounding RAW, or
triggering frame RAW, the RAW Group Indication subfield
indicates whether the RAW group defined in the current
RAW assignment is the same RAW group as defined in the
previous RAW assignment. When the RAW Group
Indication subfield is equal to 0, the RAW group defined in
the current RAW assignment is the same as the RAW group
defined in the previous RAW assignment and the RAW
Group subfield is not present in this RAW assignment.
When the RAW Group Indication subfield is equal to 1, the
RAW Group subfield is present in this RAW assignment. The
RAW Group Indication subfield in the first RAW assignment
is set to 0 to indicate the RAW group in the first RAW
assignment is the same as the range of AIDs in all the TIM
bitmaps in the S1G Beacon frame.
Table 3 – Generator Performance
Query ID
Query
Expected answer
Generated response – similarity by paragraph
Generated Response – similarity by sentence, retrieve
paragraph
Observations
F1
What do the values
of RAW Group
Indication subfield in
RPS element
indicate?
The RAW Group Indication subfield indicates
whether the RAW Group subfield is present in
the RAW
Assignment subfield and is interpreted as
follows:
— When the RAW type is generic RAW,
sounding RAW, or triggering frame RAW, the
RAW Group Indication subfield indicates
whether the RAW group defined in the current
RAW assignment is the
same RAW group as defined in the previous
RAW assignment. When the RAW Group
Indication subfield is equal to 0, the RAW group
defined in the current RAW assignment is the
same as the RAW group defined in the previous
RAW assignment and the RAW Group subfield is
not present in this RAW assignment. When the
RAW Group Indication subfield is equal to 1, the
RAW Group subfield is present in this RAW
assignment. The RAW Group Indication subfield
in the first RAW assignment is set to 0 to
indicate the RAW group in the first RAW
assignment is the same as the range of AIDs in
all the TIM bitmaps in the S1G Beacon frame.
— When the RAW is a non-TIM RAW, the RAW
Group Indication subfield is set to 0 and the
RAW Group subfield is not present.
— When the RAW is an AP PM RAW, the RAW
Group Indication subfield equal to 0 indicates
that the RAW group does not include any of the
non-AP STAs, and the RAW Group subfield is
not present.
When the RAW Group Indication subfield is
equal to 1, the RAW Group subfield is present.
'According to the given paragraphs, the values of
the RAW Group Indication subfield in the RPS
(Radio Parameter Set) element indicate whether
the RAW Group subfield is present or not in the
RAW Assignment subfield.
According to the given paragraphs, the values of the RAW
Group Indication subfield in the RPS (Radio Path Selection)
element indicate whether the RAW Group subfield is
present in the RAW Assignment subfield. If the value of
RAW Group Indication subfield is equal to 0, it means that
the RAW group defined in the current RAW assignment is
the same as the RAW group defined in the previous RAW
assignment, and the RAW Group subfield is not present in
this RAW assignment. If the value of RAW Group Indication
subfield is equal to 1, it means that the RAW Group
subfield is present in this RAW assignment
A much broader context in
general being available for
the LLM because of multiple
retrieved paragraphs helps it
in create good long form
question answering.
F2
What is IGTK
integrity group temporal key (IGTK): A random
value, assigned by the broadcast/multicast
source station
(STA), which is used to protect group addressed
medium access control (MAC) management
protocol data
units (MMPDUs) from that source STA.
Sure! Based on the given paragraphs, the answer to
your question is:\n\nIGTK stands for "integrity
group temporal key"
According to the given paragraphs, the answer to question
1 is: IGTK stands for "integrity group temporal key"
Very often the generated
response is a trivial answer
giving the full form of an
abbreviated technical term
but not giving it’s definition
F3
What is idle power
indicator
idle power indicator (IPI): A physical layer (PHY)
indication of the total channel power (noise and
interference) as measured in the channel at the
receiving antenna connector while the station
(STA) is idle, i.e., neither transmitting nor
receiving a frame.
IPI - idle power indicator
IPI - idle power indicator
Very often a term is just
abbreviated in a response.
This can sometimes be
reduced if a user a question
like “Define Idle Power
Indicator” but since this is
left to the user can create
issues
